.TH SNAPM 5 "Jun 16 2025" "Linux" "FILE FORMATS MANUAL"

.
.SH NAME
.
plugind.d \(em boom configuration files
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/snapm/plugins.d/*.conf\fP
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Files in /etc/snapm/plugins.d are loaded during the initialisation of
\fBsnapm\fP and provide configuration options that affect the behaviour
of plugins.

The files are structured in \fBINI\fP format: section headers appear in
square brackets and configuration values appear as key-value pairs with
one pair per line.
.
.SH SECTIONS
.TP
.B Limits
The Limits section may contain the \fBMaxSnapshotsPerOrigin\fP and
\fBMaxSnapshotsPerOriginPool\fP keys that place limits on the maximum
number of snapshots per origin device and thin pool respectively.

Plugins may opt-in to applying these options depending on the specific
snapshot back end. For example, \fBlvm2-cow\fP implements the
\fBMaxSnapshotsPerOrigin\fP key since excessive per-origin snapshots
using the device-mapper \fBdm-snapshot\fP target leads to read and
write IO performance degradation. The \fBlvm2-thin\fP and \fBstratis\fP
plugins on th other hand respect the \fBMaxSnapshotsPerPool\fP key
since they share the same underlying \fBdm-thin\fP implementation.

The values in both cases are a single non-negative integer specifying
the maximum allowed number of snapshots across all snapshot sets and
unmanaged snapshots.
.TP
.B Priority
The Priority section may contain the \fBPluginPriority\fP key. Setting
this key to an integer value greater than zero will override the default
priority value for the corresponding plugin. This can be used, for
example, to prefer \fBlvm2-cow\fP snapshots over \fBlvm2-thin\fP even
when the latter are available and could be used to snapshot a given
source.
.
.SH AUTHORS
.
Bryn M. Reeves <bmr@redhat.com>
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.
.
.P
.MR lvm 8 ,
.MR lvcreate 8 ,
.MR lvmthin 7 ,
.MR stratis 8 ,
.
.br
Snapm project page: https://github.com/snapshotmanager/snapm
.br
LVM2 resource page: https://www.sourceware.org/lvm2/
.br
Device-mapper resource page: http://sources.redhat.com/dm/
.br
